README.md, before:

Buildozer
=========

[![Build](https://github.com/kivy/buildozer/workflows/Continuous%20Integration/badge.svg)](https://github.com/kivy/buildozer/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Continuous+Integration%22)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/kivy/buildozer/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/kivy/buildozer)
[![Backers on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/kivy/backers/badge.svg)](#backers)
[![Sponsors on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsors/badge.svg)](#sponsors)

Buildozer is a tool for creating application packages easily.

The goal is to have one "buildozer.spec" file in your app directory, describing
your application requirements and settings such as title, icon, included modules
etc. Buildozer will use that spec to create a package for Android, iOS, Windows,
OSX and/or Linux.

Buildozer currently supports packaging for Android via the [python-for-android](http://github.com/kivy/python-for-android/)
project, and for iOS via the kivy-ios project. iOS and OSX are still under work.

For Android, buildozer will automatically download and prepare the
build dependencies. For more information, see
[Android-SDK-NDK-Information](https://github.com/kivy/kivy/wiki/Android-SDK-NDK-Information). We
recommend targeting Python 3 on Android, but you can target both
Python 3 and Python 2 regardless of which version you use with
buildozer on the desktop.

Note that this tool has nothing to do with the eponymous online build service
[buildozer.io](http://buildozer.io).

## Installing Buildozer with target Python 3 (default):

- Install buildozer:

      # via pip (latest stable, recommended)
      # if you use a virtualenv, don't use the `--user` option
      pip install --user buildozer

      # latest dev version
      # if you use a virtualenv, don't use the `--user` option
      pip install --user https://github.com/kivy/buildozer/archive/master.zip

      # git clone, for working on buildozer
      git clone https://github.com/kivy/buildozer
      cd buildozer
      python setup.py build
      pip install -e .

- Check buildozer is in your path

      `which buildozer`
      # if there is no result, and you installed with --user, add this line at the end of your `~/.bashrc` file.
      export PATH=~/.local/bin/:$PATH
      # and then run
      . ~/.bashrc

- Go into your application directory and run:

      buildozer init
      # edit the buildozer.spec, then
      buildozer android debug deploy run


## Buildozer Docker image

A Dockerfile is available to use buildozer through a Docker environment.

- Build with:

      docker build --tag=buildozer .

- Run with:

      docker run --volume "$(pwd)":/home/user/hostcwd buildozer --version


## Examples of Buildozer commands

```
# buildozer target command
buildozer android clean
buildozer android update
buildozer android deploy
buildozer android debug
buildozer android release

# or all in one (compile in debug, deploy on device)
buildozer android debug deploy

# set the default command if nothing set
buildozer setdefault android debug deploy run
```


## Usage

```
Usage:
    buildozer [--profile <name>] [--verbose] [target] <command>...
    buildozer --version

Available targets:
    android        Android target, based on python-for-android project
    ios            iOS target, based on kivy-ios project

Global commands (without target):
    distclean          Clean the whole Buildozer environment
    help               Show the Buildozer help
    init               Create an initial buildozer.spec in the current directory
    serve              Serve the bin directory via SimpleHTTPServer
    setdefault         Set the default command to run when no arguments are given
    version            Show the Buildozer version

Target commands:
    clean      Clean the target environment
    update     Update the target dependencies
    debug      Build the application in debug mode
    release    Build the application in release mode
    deploy     Deploy the application on the device
    run        Run the application on the device
    serve      Serve the bin directory via SimpleHTTPServer

Target "ios" commands:
    list_identities    List the available identities to use for signing.
    xcode              Open the xcode project.

Target "android" commands:
    adb                Run adb from the Android SDK. Args must come after --, or
                        use --alias to make an alias
    logcat             Show the log from the device
    p4a                Run p4a commands. Args must come after --, or use --alias
                        to make an alias
```


## `buildozer.spec`

See [buildozer/default.spec](https://raw.github.com/kivy/buildozer/master/buildozer/default.spec) for an up-to-date spec file.


## Default config

You can override the value of *any* `buildozer.spec` config token by
setting an appropriate environment variable. These are all of the
form ``$SECTION_TOKEN``, where SECTION is the config file section and
TOKEN is the config token to override. Dots are replaced by
underscores.

For example, here are some config tokens from the [app] section of the
config, along with the environment variables that would override them.

- ``title`` -> ``$APP_TITLE``
- ``package.name`` -> ``$APP_PACKAGE_NAME``
- ``p4a.source_dir`` -> ``$APP_P4A_SOURCE_DIR``

## Support

If you need assistance, you can ask for help on our mailing list:

* User Group : https://groups.google.com/group/kivy-users
* Email      : kivy-users@googlegroups.com

We also have an IRC channel:

* Server  : irc.freenode.net
* Port    : 6667, 6697 (SSL only)
* Channel : #kivy


## Contributing

We love pull requests and discussing novel ideas. Check out our
[contribution guide](http://kivy.org/docs/contribute.html) and
feel free to improve buildozer.

The following mailing list and IRC channel are used exclusively for
discussions about developing the Kivy framework and its sister projects:

* Dev Group : https://groups.google.com/group/kivy-dev
* Email     : kivy-dev@googlegroups.com

We also have a Discord channel:

* Server     : https://chat.kivy.org
* Channel    : #support


## License

Buildozer is released under the terms of the MIT License. Please refer to the
LICENSE file.


## Backers

Thank you to all our backers! 🙏 [[Become a backer](https://opencollective.com/kivy#backer)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy#backers" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/backers.svg?width=890"></a>


## Sponsors

Support this project by becoming a sponsor. Your logo will show up here with a link to your website. [[Become a sponsor](https://opencollective.com/kivy#sponsor)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/0/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/1/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/1/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/2/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/2/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/3/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/3/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/4/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/4/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/5/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/5/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/6/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/6/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/7/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/7/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/8/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/8/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/9/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/9/avatar.svg"></a>

Commit message:

:wastebasket: Linter fixes and README.md update
Linter fixes:
- E123 closing bracket does not match indentation of opening bracket's line
- E125 continuation line with same indent as next logical line
- E231 missing whitespace after ','
- E265 block comment should start with '# '
- E302 expected 2 blank lines, found 1
- E305 expected 2 blank lines after class or function definition, found 1
- E731 do not assign a lambda expression, use a def
- F401 imported but unused
- F821 undefined name
- W605 invalid escape sequence

Also removes a Python 2 reference from the README.md

README.md, after:

Buildozer
=========

[![Build](https://github.com/kivy/buildozer/workflows/Continuous%20Integration/badge.svg)](https://github.com/kivy/buildozer/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Continuous+Integration%22)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/kivy/buildozer/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/kivy/buildozer)
[![Backers on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/kivy/backers/badge.svg)](#backers)
[![Sponsors on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsors/badge.svg)](#sponsors)

Buildozer is a tool for creating application packages easily.

The goal is to have one "buildozer.spec" file in your app directory, describing
your application requirements and settings such as title, icon, included modules
etc. Buildozer will use that spec to create a package for Android, iOS, Windows,
OSX and/or Linux.

Buildozer currently supports packaging for Android via the [python-for-android](http://github.com/kivy/python-for-android/)
project, and for iOS via the kivy-ios project. iOS and OSX are still under work.

For Android, buildozer will automatically download and prepare the
build dependencies. For more information, see
[Android-SDK-NDK-Information](https://github.com/kivy/kivy/wiki/Android-SDK-NDK-Information).
Note that only Python 3 is supported.

Note that this tool has nothing to do with the eponymous online build service
[buildozer.io](http://buildozer.io).

## Installing Buildozer with target Python 3 (default):

- Install buildozer:

      # via pip (latest stable, recommended)
      # if you use a virtualenv, don't use the `--user` option
      pip install --user buildozer

      # latest dev version
      # if you use a virtualenv, don't use the `--user` option
      pip install --user https://github.com/kivy/buildozer/archive/master.zip

      # git clone, for working on buildozer
      git clone https://github.com/kivy/buildozer
      cd buildozer
      python setup.py build
      pip install -e .

- Check buildozer is in your path

      `which buildozer`
      # if there is no result, and you installed with --user, add this line at the end of your `~/.bashrc` file.
      export PATH=~/.local/bin/:$PATH
      # and then run
      . ~/.bashrc

- Go into your application directory and run:

      buildozer init
      # edit the buildozer.spec, then
      buildozer android debug deploy run


## Buildozer Docker image

A Dockerfile is available to use buildozer through a Docker environment.

- Build with:

      docker build --tag=buildozer .

- Run with:

      docker run --volume "$(pwd)":/home/user/hostcwd buildozer --version


## Examples of Buildozer commands

```
# buildozer target command
buildozer android clean
buildozer android update
buildozer android deploy
buildozer android debug
buildozer android release

# or all in one (compile in debug, deploy on device)
buildozer android debug deploy

# set the default command if nothing set
buildozer setdefault android debug deploy run
```


## Usage

```
Usage:
    buildozer [--profile <name>] [--verbose] [target] <command>...
    buildozer --version

Available targets:
    android        Android target, based on python-for-android project
    ios            iOS target, based on kivy-ios project

Global commands (without target):
    distclean          Clean the whole Buildozer environment
    help               Show the Buildozer help
    init               Create an initial buildozer.spec in the current directory
    serve              Serve the bin directory via SimpleHTTPServer
    setdefault         Set the default command to run when no arguments are given
    version            Show the Buildozer version

Target commands:
    clean      Clean the target environment
    update     Update the target dependencies
    debug      Build the application in debug mode
    release    Build the application in release mode
    deploy     Deploy the application on the device
    run        Run the application on the device
    serve      Serve the bin directory via SimpleHTTPServer

Target "ios" commands:
    list_identities    List the available identities to use for signing.
    xcode              Open the xcode project.

Target "android" commands:
    adb                Run adb from the Android SDK. Args must come after --, or
                        use --alias to make an alias
    logcat             Show the log from the device
    p4a                Run p4a commands. Args must come after --, or use --alias
                        to make an alias
```


## `buildozer.spec`

See [buildozer/default.spec](https://raw.github.com/kivy/buildozer/master/buildozer/default.spec) for an up-to-date spec file.


## Default config

You can override the value of *any* `buildozer.spec` config token by
setting an appropriate environment variable. These are all of the
form ``$SECTION_TOKEN``, where SECTION is the config file section and
TOKEN is the config token to override. Dots are replaced by
underscores.

For example, here are some config tokens from the [app] section of the
config, along with the environment variables that would override them.

- ``title`` -> ``$APP_TITLE``
- ``package.name`` -> ``$APP_PACKAGE_NAME``
- ``p4a.source_dir`` -> ``$APP_P4A_SOURCE_DIR``

## Support

If you need assistance, you can ask for help on our mailing list:

* User Group : https://groups.google.com/group/kivy-users
* Email      : kivy-users@googlegroups.com

We also have an IRC channel:

* Server  : irc.freenode.net
* Port    : 6667, 6697 (SSL only)
* Channel : #kivy


## Contributing

We love pull requests and discussing novel ideas. Check out our
[contribution guide](http://kivy.org/docs/contribute.html) and
feel free to improve buildozer.

The following mailing list and IRC channel are used exclusively for
discussions about developing the Kivy framework and its sister projects:

* Dev Group : https://groups.google.com/group/kivy-dev
* Email     : kivy-dev@googlegroups.com

We also have a Discord channel:

* Server     : https://chat.kivy.org
* Channel    : #support


## License

Buildozer is released under the terms of the MIT License. Please refer to the
LICENSE file.


## Backers

Thank you to all our backers! 🙏 [[Become a backer](https://opencollective.com/kivy#backer)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy#backers" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/backers.svg?width=890"></a>


## Sponsors

Support this project by becoming a sponsor. Your logo will show up here with a link to your website. [[Become a sponsor](https://opencollective.com/kivy#sponsor)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/0/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/1/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/1/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/2/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/2/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/3/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/3/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/4/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/4/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/5/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/5/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/6/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/6/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/7/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/7/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/8/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/8/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/9/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/kivy/sponsor/9/avatar.svg"></a>
