docs/source/quickstart.rst, before:

Quickstart
==========

Let's get started with Buildozer!

Init and build for Android
--------------------------

#. Buildozer will try to guess the version of your application, by searching a
   line like `__version__ = "1.0.3"` in your `main.py`. Ensure you have one at
   the start of your application. It is not mandatory but heavilly advised.

#. Create a `buildozer.spec` file, with::

    buildozer init

#. Edit the `buildozer.spec` according to the :ref:`specifications`. You should
   at least change the `title`, `package.name` and `package.domain` in the
   `[app]` section.

#. Start a Android/debug build with::

    buildozer -v android debug

#. Now it's time for a coffee / tea, or a dinner if you have a slow computer.
   The first build will be slow, as it will download the Android SDK, NDK, and
   others tools needed for the compilation.
   Don't worry, thoses files will be saved in a global directory and will be
   shared accross the different project you'll manage with Buildozer.

#. At the end, you should have an APK file in the `bin/` directory.


Run my application
------------------

Buildozer is able to deploy the application on your mobile, run it, and even
get back the log into the console. It will work only if you already compiled
your application at least once::

    buildozer android deploy run logcat

For iOS, it would look the same::

    buildozer ios deploy run

You can combine the compilation with the deployment::

    buildozer -v android debug deploy run logcat

You can also set this line at the default command to do if Buildozer is started
without any arguments::

    buildozer setdefault android debug deploy run logcat
    
    # now just type buildozer, and it will do the default command
    buildozer


Install on non-connected devices
--------------------------------

If you have compiled a package, and want to share it easily with others
devices, you might be interested with the `serve` command. It will serve the
`bin/` directory over HTTP. Then you just have to access to the URL showed in
the console from your mobile::

    buildozer serve

Commit message:

Add logcat to file instructions (#398)
* Update quickstart.rst

Saving the logcat data to a file should be mentioned.

* Update quickstart.rst

docs/source/quickstart.rst, after:

Quickstart
==========

Let's get started with Buildozer!

Init and build for Android
--------------------------

#. Buildozer will try to guess the version of your application, by searching a
   line like `__version__ = "1.0.3"` in your `main.py`. Ensure you have one at
   the start of your application. It is not mandatory but heavilly advised.

#. Create a `buildozer.spec` file, with::

    buildozer init

#. Edit the `buildozer.spec` according to the :ref:`specifications`. You should
   at least change the `title`, `package.name` and `package.domain` in the
   `[app]` section.

#. Start a Android/debug build with::

    buildozer -v android debug

#. Now it's time for a coffee / tea, or a dinner if you have a slow computer.
   The first build will be slow, as it will download the Android SDK, NDK, and
   others tools needed for the compilation.
   Don't worry, thoses files will be saved in a global directory and will be
   shared accross the different project you'll manage with Buildozer.

#. At the end, you should have an APK file in the `bin/` directory.


Run my application
------------------

Buildozer is able to deploy the application on your mobile, run it, and even
get back the log into the console. It will work only if you already compiled
your application at least once::

    buildozer android deploy run logcat

For iOS, it would look the same::

    buildozer ios deploy run

You can combine the compilation with the deployment::

    buildozer -v android debug deploy run logcat

You can also set this line at the default command to do if Buildozer is started
without any arguments::

    buildozer setdefault android debug deploy run logcat
    
    # now just type buildozer, and it will do the default command
    buildozer

To save the logcat output into a file named `my_log.txt` (the file will appear in your current directory)::

    buildozer -v android debug deploy run logcat > my_log.txt

Install on non-connected devices
--------------------------------

If you have compiled a package, and want to share it easily with others
devices, you might be interested with the `serve` command. It will serve the
`bin/` directory over HTTP. Then you just have to access to the URL showed in
the console from your mobile::

    buildozer serve
